= UCSCBin
Author:: Hiroyuki Mishima (missy at be.to / hmishima at nagasaki-u.ac.jp)
Copyright:: Hiroyuki Mishima, 2010
License:: the MIT/X11 license. See the LICENSE file.

A library for handling BIN index and 0/1-based coordination of
UCSC Bioinformatics Genome Browser ( http://genome.ucsc.edu/ )

Original program in C by Jim Kent, 2002

See also related materials:
* http://genomewiki.ucsc.edu/index.php/Bin_indexing_system,
* Kent, et. al. Genome Research 2002.12:996-1006, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC186604/
* src/lib/binRange.c in the kent source tree. http://hgdownload.cse.ucsc.edu/admin/jksrc.zip

== UCSCBin::Util
convert between 0-based half-open interval and
1-based full-close intervals.

== UCSCBin::BinRange
Calculate Bin number from genomic physical position
according to UCSC's Bin Indexing System. 
note: Extended bin index for positions >= 512M is not supported yet.
Do you need it? Please email the author.

== sample/refseqgene.rb
to run the sample (input interval is regular 1-based full-closed cordination) 
 sudo gem install sequel
 sample/refseqgene.rb chr1:234567-456789
 
output:
 chr1:234567-345678      LOC100133331; LOC100132287; LOC100132062

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests 
* github repository is git://github.com/misshie/UCSCBin.git
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches. 

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Hiroyuki MISHIMA. See LICENSE for details.
